After reading Sante’s “Streets”, I began to notice the stark differences between New York’s urban planning when compared to that of European cities. How does the construction and urban planning of New York streets impact the ways in which citizens interact with it? Our lack of wide boulevards and grand plazas is interesting—New York truly is a city that focuses on fitting as many people in one space as possible. American cities, especially those on the East Coast, tend to be more cramped feeling. Our buildings touch up right next to each other, large sky rises are inevitable, and side streets grow increasingly narrow. During my semester abroad in London, the entire city was spaciously planned out with gardens and parks, sweeping boulevards and public spaces. Property was more expensive because of this more formal, luxurious feel built out between streets. Even the NYC streets themselves were crammed, full of pedestrian traffic and vendors bustling up and down the road.

Sante touches upon the idea that expensive real estate and clean living was closer to 5th avenue, paralleling the notion that Broadway acts as New York City’s spine. Water fronts, he claims, were ridden with dirt and not desirable places to live in. This is still somewhat true today, particularly within the East Village. Avenue D practically touches the East River, and it still remains one of the cheaper places to live. Stuytown apartments and government provided housing fills this area, while the more luxurious parts of Downtown tend to move inwards. Part of this, I believe, is due to the noise from both FDR and the West Side Highway. These streets are fast and loud, full of people moving in and out of the city, and don’t afford for the most high-end living. However, West Side properties definitely come off as fancier than those of the East. Glass skyscrapers overlook the Hudson, and are priced highly because of it. This drew me in to pick up on a sharp distinction between both the East and West side of New York.

One thing that I never realized before was the extreme amount of noise due to the traffic in New York City. I’m familiar with hearing sirens and people below me at night, but I can’t seem to fathom hearing the noise of people, carts, and horses walking down cobblestone streets. The simple medium of pavement today reduces our noise pollution, making it a more comfortable city to live in. However, cobblestone streets that remain within SoHo create a scenic illusion, a more luxurious façade. Whenever I’m down there, I see influencers and the public alike snapping photos, using the cobblestoned street as a back drop. Even having vendors in the street yelling about what their selling seems like a foreign concept to me. Now, we have street fairs and markets where each vendor is given their own space. New York is a place where businesses are battling for territory, but the evolution of street fairs and markets have shifted the ways in which we as consumers interact with businesses. The street is no longer simply a place to travel through, but a place to become involved with New York. We purchase goods, eat food, run, listen to music—all on the streets of New York.
